We have created a database and configured our Rails project to connect to it. Next we need to *add tables to that database* and we're going to do that by *writing Rails migrations*. A *migration* is a *set of database instructions*. Those instructions are *Ruby code*, which *migrates our database from one state into another*. Essentially, they *describe database changes*. In our migrations we can create a table, add a column, change the name of a column, drop a table, and much more. A migration will *contain both the instructions for moving to a new state and also instructions for moving back down to the previous state*.

If a migration has instructions to create a table when moving forward or up, it will also include instructions to allow it to move back down by dropping the table. If you move up by adding three columns to a table, then you'll have instructions to move back down by removing those three columns. Being able to move in both directions allows us to migrate in both directions. We can migrate our database to the newest version or migrate back to a previous version. So, *why would you use migrations?* **Migrations maintain our database schema with our application code**.

Our application depends on having the database in a particular state and since they are closely coupled, we want to make sure that *the description of the database is stored right alongside our application code*. And because the instructions are written down, *we can execute them anytime and they're repeatable*. Let's imagine that I take my project to a new computer and I want to *recreate the database* there. All I have to do is *run my migrations and it'll put the new database in the same state*. Another benefit of migrations, is that we can *share database changes with other developers*.

Imagine that there are two developers working on a project together. If one developer adds a column to one of the tables and writes code that depends on that column, the other developer is going to need to add a column to their table to keep their code working. If they share the migration file, the developer can run the migrations and keep their databases in sync. *Migrations also help with versioning*. If you're using a version control system, like Git Or Subversion, *you can check out a previous revision of the code and then migrate your database to put them in the same state the code expects*.

*Migrations also allow us to write Ruby code instead of writing SQL*. You can still write SQL if you prefer, but Ruby gives us handy, easy to remember tools, that keep us from having to look up the SQL syntax. And using Ruby, migrations have easy access to our Rails application code. That's useful if we need migrations that depend on the data that's already in our application. Maybe I want to add a new column and I also want to pre-populate it with data coming from another table. However, migrations are not a perfect solution. There can be issues with sharing schemas, with making changes to existing migrations, or with getting the database into a state where migrations won't run up or down until you go in and manually tinker with it.

But developing using migrations is much better than developing without them. They'll definitely make working with databases and Rails a lot easier. Let's see how we can create migrations.
